What are the documents for the operation?
All economic operations are documented in accordance with the current legislation.
This documentation is taken to the accountants of the enterprises and is reflected in the accounting record.
The variety of existing documents can be grouped according to certain characteristics.
The purpose of the documents can be administrative, combined, accounting and justification.
The example of administrative documents is the order of the manager or the contract of the organization, for example, the delivery contract.
Combined documents are payment and accounting information when accounting with the staff.
Accounting documents are the accounting certificate.
Justification documents are the deposit for the purchase of a product.
The time of the documents' completion can be primary or combined.
The primary documents are the payment and accounting documents.
The combined documents are the register of all payment and accounting documents for one day.
The documents on the volume of information are divided into disposable and accumulative.
The documents on the place of composition are external and internal.
For example, the external document is the deposit from the supplier, the internal document is the incoming order of the organization.
The documents can look like a table, questionnaire and combined.
It is better to design and design primary documents with the managers in close contact with the accounting department.
This will prevent unnecessary errors when designing documents.
Any organization should select those who have a direct relationship with the design of primary documents and train them to design them correctly.
It is important to remember that the period of storing primary documents is regulated in Russia for at least 5 years.
The responsibility for storing and filling them is not the accountant, but the manager.
All economic operations should be designed with justification documents.
These documents are the primary accounting documents, on the basis of which accounting is carried out.
The internal documents are the requirements, the incoming order, the external documents, the accounts, the deposits.
The documents can be multilateral, such as a trilateral contract or a multilateral act.
A specific document should be created for each economic operation.
For example, I would like to draw your attention to the combined table in different situations.
Let's say that the primary funds are reflected as a contribution to the statutory capital.
What documents are required for this?
The primary funds received from the institutions are the ones that are used to produce the documents.
The primary funds are received on the basis of the Act on the Receipt and Transmission of Primary Funds.
The procedure for acquiring the primary funds also consists of several stages.
First, a purchase-sale contract is drawn up, and a bill for payment is issued.
This is also a type of document.
The main funds are paid by the legal entities.
This means that the account will be issued and the organization will be charged.
To obtain the primary funds, the goods-transport deposit is issued and the invoice is accompanied by it.
The main funds of the accounting are taken into account.
The document is drawn up as the Act on the Receipt and Transmission of Primary Funds.
The primary funds are transferred to the current long-term lease.
The lease contract is drawn up and the payment is issued.
To record the fact of the transfer of the primary funds to the leaseholder,
the Act on the Receipt and Transmission of Primary Funds is drawn up.
The payment is recorded by the organization's account.
This is an example of the documentation of some operations.
The justification documents of the organization confirm the fact of the economic operation.
The justification documents can be used for the income and expenditure deposits, various documents, cash checks, and other documents.
The accounting staff usually deal with accounting documents.
These documents do not contain facts that confirm the performance of economic operations.
These are the accounts of the accountant, the accounting documents,
and they serve as the basis for further accounting records.
The accounting registers are the documents of analytical and synthetic accounting,
the notations, the order books, and the accounting books,
but they are not the subject of our consideration in this course.
The combined documents contain the signs of both the administrative and the justification documents.
For example, the deposit requirement for the release of materials from warehouses,
the production of goods, the transport deposit, the accounting payment,
the notice of payment, the salary, and so on.
I will try to explain to you what the combined documents are.
Let's take the accounting payment notice for the payment of the salary.
The first function of the document is the accounting registration document.
The accountant compiles this notice for the persons receiving the salary,
then he lists the salary and determines the amount to be paid.
Then the function of this document is the administrative one.
After the accounting payment notice is transferred to the cash register,
it serves as the basis for issuing the salary to each worker.
After the salary is issued, all workers are signed that they have received the money.
This is the justification document for the cash register that he has issued the money from the cash register.
The primary documents are the documents for the payment and release of materials,
the payment of the salary, the unloading of products, the cash register, the payment instructions, and so on.
The combined documents are the first stage of the data collection,
which is contained in several primary documents that precede their accounting processing.
For example, these are the goods reports of the materially responsible persons,
cash register reports, or reports of the persons responsible for the expenditure of the money advance.
This is how the primary documents are summarized,
and the payment instructions are also calculated according to the salary.
The documents on which the economic operations have been carried out are sent to your accountant,
where three types of verification are carried out.
The first type is a formal verification, when the accountant checks the correctness of the form.
Are all the sections of the document filled in?
Are all the requisites filled in correctly?
Are the requisites fully filled in?
The second type is a verification of the existence of the document.
This is a verification of the existence of the document.
And finally, the third type is an arithmetic verification,
which checks the correctness of the calculation of the data in the document.
The accountant must calculate whether all the data is filled in correctly.
What should be done to avoid mistakes?
The head of the organization must build a scheme of the circulation of the document.
He must identify the persons who make up the document,
who check it, and who, based on the document,
either issue the goods, or receive the goods, or sum up the work done.
He must conduct an analysis of the typical errors,
and teach everyone who has a relationship with the registration of the document
the basic rules of registration.
He must organize the service of internal control.
The modern and high-quality registration of primary accounting documents,
their transfer to the established terms for reflection in the accounting record,
as well as the reliability of the data contained in them,
provide the persons who have compiled and signed these documents.
An example of a circulation scheme is shown in the textbook.
Here is a video lecture in the form of a table.
For example, to issue a travel list to a driver,
this document must be compiled by either the dispatcher,
or the mechanic, or the driver himself.
The period for which this document is compiled is the period of the trip.
The organization's employees must compile this document every day.
Who will process the document?
The person in charge is appointed, the accountant,
and these documents are processed every day.
When the document is transferred to the archive,
the person in charge is also assigned,
who must hand this document over to the archive,
and the transfer period to the archive,
let's say, the period of the report.
The accountant collects the travel lists within a month,
and at the end, he submits them to the archive.
Similarly, other documents are presented in the table.
This is an example of a circulation scheme in the form of a table.
I want to remind you of a situation from a literary work.
Let's recall Bulgakov.
There was a dialogue.
Where did this Makhta come from?
Who knows?
So, they made a contract with him?
Well, we have to assume,
Vasily Stepanovich was worried.
If he was a prisoner, he had to go through the accounting department.
Where is he?
He said, the accountant is not here.
He was getting more and more pale, shaking his hands.
Indeed, there are no traces of the contract in the accounting department,
the director, Lekhadeev, or Varynokh.
The accounting rules are that there are no documents, no circulation.
The fact that there is a reflection of the economic operation in the accounting and tax records is present.
However, the primary documents and economic contracts are either absent at all,
or presented in dubious copies, or incomplete.
This is exactly the typical mistake that leads to negative financial and tax consequences.
There is a situation when the head of the organization does not agree with the opinion of the chief accountant.
How to deal with this situation?
In the event of a disagreement between the head of the organization and the chief accountant
on the implementation of separate economic operations,
the primary accounting documents can be used to carry out the written order of the head of the organization.
Since the head of the organization bears full responsibility for the consequences of such operations
and for including them in the accounting records.
If the head of the organization has given the order, the accountant is obliged to include these documents in the accounting records.
If the controlling authorities make a request for the removal of the primary documents,
I would like to remind you that the accounting documents can be withdrawn only by the authorities of the preliminary investigation
and the prosecutor's office, courts, and the Tax Administration on the basis of their decisions in accordance with the legislation of the Russian Federation.
Do not forget that the decision on the withdrawal should contain a clear list of the documents and the reason for their withdrawal.
The withdrawal of documents simply for verification by the current legislation is not provided.
The chief accountant or another official of the organization has the right to remove copies of the documents
with the indication of the basis and date of withdrawal from the permission of the representatives of the bodies carrying out the withdrawal.
The forms of the primary documents that are taken into account by the accountants are developed and approved by the statistical bodies.
At the moment, there are quite a lot of such forms, even in terms of their uniformity classification.
For example, there are forms for accounting personnel, working hours and payroll,
capital construction, products, commodity values,
cash payments to the population with the use of cash machines,
trading and cash transactions, inventory results,
accounting for the main funds, non-material assets, accounting for materials, accounting for work in automotive, and so on.
Many of them are obtained by the accountant after these documents pass through the hands of the manager or an ordinary employee of the organization.
What requisites must be in these documents?
The naming of the document is a financial and economic content of the economic operation.
A document without a naming and a document with an unclear, poorly read naming has no legal power.
The accountant must understand what document he is working with to decide on the economic operation that he should register in the accounting record.
Often, the name of the document must include payment, tax, registration and mail requisites of legal and physical parties involved in the economic operation.
A document without the naming of the requisites of at least one of the parties of the operation loses its addressability and cannot be accepted for execution.
A document with an unclear writing or a document with no date loses its time period in which it should be registered.
In fact, such a document also has no legal power.
A document with a naming of the document in which it is reflected in its general form is also a necessary requisite for the maintenance of the economic operation.
The necessity of a strict compliance with the naming of the document in the maintenance of the economic operation is determined by the principle of objectivity of registration in the accounting record.
The document must contain measurements of the economic operation.
The absence of a measurement in the document can be natural in terms of units of weight, size, labor, man-hour and money.
According to the Russian Federation law, the absence of a measurement in the document in rubles deprives it of its accounting basis.
If you have to work with commodity values that have a measurement in money, but in the money of other countries,
it is allowed to add another count to this document, in which the conditional units or money units of other countries will be recalculated to the unit of Russia's accounting in rubles.
The document must contain signatures of the responsible persons with the decryption of their positions and surnames.
The first signature should belong to the head of the organization, the director of loans, for example, the general director, and the second signature should belong to the chief accountant.
The required requisites for the primary document are the names of the documents, the names of the requisites of the parties, the date of the composition,
the content of the economic operation, the measurements of the economic operation, and the signatures of the responsible persons.
Disobedience to any of the requirements for the documentation can cause the workers of the controlling bodies to doubt the authenticity of the document presented to them,
as a result of which the cost of the produced product and the dispute over the correctness of the profit calculation may be excluded.
Thus, for example, in the absence of documents confirming the fact of the use of certain resources in the production process,
when a document is checked, the workers of the tax authorities may deem it unlawful to deduct the costs for the cost of the product.
There may be other negative consequences of incorrect documentation.
For example, let's look at the situation. The salary of the workers for the production of parts was produced on the basis of the orders, which were not signed by the master or the head of the workshop.
The absence of the signature of the responsible person on the orders for the production of works can mean both that such works were not produced at all, and that the works were actually produced, but they were not necessary.
In the first case, we have the fact of the fraud of documents and the fact of money laundering, if the worker has already received a salary without a basis, as well as a reduction in the cost of living.
In the second case, we have the fact of the irrational use of the enterprise funds and the reduction in the cost of living.
In this case, the organization will have to look for other ways to prove the actual implementation of the costs and their production direction.
One of the evidences may be documents confirming the delivery of the finished parts to the warehouse.
However, in order to prove that the parts made according to the incorrectly designed orders were delivered to the warehouse, it will be necessary to analyze all the documents in the organization,
the movement of materials and finished products, and to make inventory in the warehouse.
As you can see, obtaining evidence is possible, but it is quite laborious.
And when there are a lot of incorrectly designed documents in the account, it is difficult to implement them.
The next situation is the one in the overhead. There is no date for obtaining the materials from the warehouse.
The absence of a date for obtaining the materials from the warehouse does not allow us to determine the reporting period for the obtained materials.
To determine this, we will have to make inventory of the materials and products made with their use,
to conduct a comparative analysis of the movement of materials, the period of use in production and the delivery to the warehouse of the finished product,
and to compare the obtained data with the data on the implementation of the finished product.
The terms of the initial registration of the documents must be completed at the time of the economic operation.
If this is not possible for objective reasons, then it must be done immediately after the operation.
This is due to the fact that the main purpose of the initial registration of documents is to record the fact of the economic operation.
In order to ensure that the document turnover is not overloaded, according to Russian legislation,
the organization can modify the recommended typical forms of documents, taking into account the specifics of its activities.
For example, add additional requisites.
The organization issues cash reports on the economic and operational expenses of the employees in terms of size and term determined by the head.
Those who receive cash reports are obliged to submit a document called an advance report to the accounting office
within three working days after the deadline for which they are issued or upon return from a business trip.
The report is about the spent amounts and the final calculation of them must be made.
In practice, this happens often when an employee acquires material values for the employer's needs,
not only without receiving the money report, but even without permission to act in the interests of the organization.
Such permission to act in the interests of the organization gives the organization its trust.
If the head does not have permission to issue an advance report, it turns out that the employee bought some property and then sold it to his home office.
Therefore, when the employee is paid for his position, the payment of the property is not the expense of the transfer,
but the payment of the property according to the purchase-sale contract and the physical receipt of the income.
There is a limit to the amount of cash payments between legal entities and individuals.
Today, this is 100,000 rubles per contract. This is the Bank of Russia's statement.
There is an arbitration practice that indicates that only parties who bring cash from a superimposed limit should be held accountable for exceeding the limit.
What to do if the initial document is issued, for example, the same deposit, and inaccuracies are made?
What if a cash document is issued?
The issuance of the correction is not allowed in cash and bank documents,
and the correction can be made in other initial accounting documents based on the agreement with the parties who made and signed these documents.
This must be confirmed by the signatures of the same parties with the date of the issuance of the correction.
This can also be read in the textbook.
Let's look at one example of the correction.
The master of the sewing workshop, a financially responsible person, issued a demand for a deposit for the receipt of 120 satin-green shoulder straps from the warehouse.
The head of the sewing workshop, signing the demand for a deposit, ordered to receive 150 meters of fabric.
To correct the error, the master of the sewing workshop must mark the inscription 120, put 150 and write next to it,
corrected to 150, the date of the correction is provided under the correction record.
The correction record is verified by the signature of the master with the indication of his position, surname, and the head of the workshop.
Subsequently, other people who will sign this document, the head of the supply department, the warehouse keeper, should also put their signature under the correction record.
Thus, if the correction is made at the initial stage of the composition of the document, it is better not to correct it, but to compose it again.
The same initial documents are used in accounting for taxation purposes.
Examples can also be found in the e-book.
The registration of economic transactions with money.
I want to dwell on this procedure a little.
The list of persons who have the right to sign the primary accounting documents is approved by the head of the organization in accordance with the main accountant.
The documents that are used to register an economic transaction with money are signed by the head of the organization, the main accountant, or the persons authorized to do so.
Without the signature of the main accountant or the person authorized to do so, the financial and credit obligations of the money accounting documents are considered invalid and should not be executed.
If a situation arises when a document is required to be signed by a person, but it is not specified in the list of persons who have the right to sign the corresponding documents,
then the worker must be authorized by a special order of the head of the organization to carry out these actions.
The order must include the visa of the main accountant, if the permission is granted to sign the money or accounting documents, as well as the financial or credit obligations.
Or the worker must be given the appropriate confidentiality.
If a document is signed by a person who does not belong to the organization, then the validity of such a document is controversial.
Any party to the deal, as well as third parties to this basis, can insist that the validity of the document and the deal should be recognized.
If the organization approves the actions of the workers, then the economic operation according to the Russian legislation is considered to be carried out on behalf of the organization.
What will happen if the accounting documents are lost? Let's try to assess the extent of the disaster.
There are different types of responsibility. Administrative and criminal.
In what cases is the responsibility of the organization and its officials for the loss of accounting documents?
The administrative penalty for the officials is the violation of the terms and order of storing documents.
The official is the general director, accountant or person responsible for the preservation of documents.
The administrative penalty can be as high as 2,000 to 3,000 rubles.
The officials are also liable for the loss of accounting documents and tax authorities if these actions have caused a large or particularly large tax evasion.
Let's look at the distribution of documents.
As I said, they include various types of orders, trusts, contracts and agreements.
Let's pay more attention to the contracts and agreements.
Based on such a distribution document as a contract or agreement, a number of primary accounting documents can be formed.
For example, a document on the disposal of goods and material valuables, a payment document for payment of received valuables, an act of service, and so on.
Choosing a type of contract and errors in the formulation of a contract can lead to serious tax consequences.
In order to ensure the correctness of accounting and tax accounting, it is recommended to prescribe a contract policy in addition to accounting policy.
I would like to give an example of such a contract policy, the basis of its composition, using the example of a purchase-sale deal.
Let's consider four situations that may arise during a deal.
The contract provides for a preliminary payment of goods and the right to property is transferred at the time of their discharge.
Is it beneficial to the buyer? Is it beneficial to the supplier? Let's look at this in more detail.
At this point, the buyer is distracted from the turnover, and the supplier has a free loan.
Are the conditions beneficial to the seller and not to the buyer?
In the case where the preliminary payment of goods is provided by the contract, and the right to property is transferred only at the time of their payment,
the buyer becomes the owner of the goods.
The goods can be resold to the buyer directly from the supplier's warehouse.
According to the goods, the buyer can show the budget.
The conditions are beneficial to the buyer and the seller, because the buyer receives money for the goods immediately at the time of their discharge.
The next situation is when the preliminary payment of goods is provided by the contract, and the right to property is transferred at the time of their discharge.
The seller loses the right to property for the goods, and thus credits the buyer.
The buyer uses a free goods loan before their payment.
Are the conditions beneficial to the buyer and not to the seller?
In the case of the subsequent payment of goods with the right to property being transferred at the time of their payment,
the buyer receives money for the goods, and thus credits the buyer.
This is a very interesting situation, when the seller seems to protect himself from the delay in the buyer's payment.
But in practice, the buyer, having received the goods, begins to resell them before the payment.
It is difficult to track this situation, especially if the batches of goods are large.
This option of signing a contract is only effective for the seller in relation to certain goods, either individual or individual deliveries.
Next, let's talk about the price of the deal that can be signed by the contract.
The parties of the contract can, with the exception of cases specifically indicated by the regulatory documents,
independently set the price of the contract and the conditions for its possible changes.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in addition to the price of the deal, the contract also stipulates a tax on the added value.
If you forgot to write this down in the contract, then your counterpart may require an additional tax on this contract in the amount of the tax on the added value.
In any case, you must write down in the contract either the contract price includes the tax on the added value, or this tax is taken over the price of the deal and the amount is negotiated.
In cases where the price of the deal is not specified and cannot be determined based on the terms of the contract,
the fulfillment of the contract must be paid at a price that, under comparable circumstances, is usually taken for similar works or services.
According to the general rules, this is the Vienna Convention.
It is also necessary to choose a counterpart according to the contract.
Before concluding the contract, you need to inquire about the legal status of your counterpart.
Is he an organization with a common tax system, or does he have a simplified tax system?
If the enterprise acquires a product, work, or service, and is the taxpayer of the tax on the added value,
it is important for him that the value of the product purchased includes this tax, which could be taken to account.
That is, the counterpart according to the contract, the supplier, should also be a taxpayer of the NTS.
I want to show you this with a simple numerical example.
Let's consider two options.
In the first option, the consumables will be acquired from organizations that are not taxpayers of the tax on the added value.
In the second option, the consumables will be acquired from organizations that are taxpayers of the NTS.
You can see the calculations in front of you.
The NTS budget for the products you have produced in the first option will be 9,000 rubles.
In the second option, it will be less than 3,600 rubles.
This already determines the outflow of money in the first option, it is much more than in the second.
And let's also calculate the tax-adhered profit.
According to the first option, this profit will be about 11,000 rubles.
According to the second option, more than 20,000 rubles.
It is up to you to decide which deal will be more profitable for you.
The correctness of the registration of the initials and distribution documents can significantly affect the financial result of the enterprise.
The forms of the initial documents can be adapted to the specifications of the enterprise.
To avoid risks, it is necessary to train and regulate the activities of employees who have a relationship with the registration of the initials.
Accountants and lawyers of the organization are your internal consultants in the issue of minimizing risks
that are associated with the incorrect registration of the initials and distribution documents.
In conclusion, I firmly believe that understanding the financial accountability of an accountant will improve the prospects of your career.
You will never play football without knowing the rules of the game.
Knowing the basics of financial games gives you the opportunity to look at your work with a fresh eye,
assess your personal efficiency better than before, and increase the profitability of your business.
Now you can ask more professional questions to your chief accountant, for example.
How does he choose specific time frames for amortization?
Perhaps, when he has completed the first step, he will ask for your advice.